We talked a lot about services in this module and I hope you saw how services can clean our app up make
the code a bit leaner more centralized easier to maintain.
You don't have to build these complex output input chains where you pass events and properties to get
data from component to component B.
It's much leaner now let me show you how much we actually saved.
Let's say that if we click on the button here in the account component for some reason we want to output
something in the new account component.
Normally without services we would have to emit an event in the code component that something was clicked
or something happened so that we changed the status.
For example we would have to catch the event year in app account.
As a side note we can of course remove these events here.
They don't they aren't triggered anymore.
So we would have to catch these events year and then we would have to pass the new data down via property
by adding to the component where we wanted to handle it pretty complicated and building these chains
of property and even binding is not the most convenient way of writing code.
It's so much easier with services let's say in our accounts service year.
We want to provide some event which we can trigger in one component and listened to in a number.
So we could simply add the status update event which could be a new event emitter which we import from
an angular core.
So make sure to add to import at the top which will pass on the new event excuse me the new status.
So a string and yes we could trigger it.
Now here in the upset update status Mefford but we can also since been checked the account service here
where we set a new status call account service status update it and emit this with the new status.
So now I'm emitting any event.
I set up in the service and as a side note later in the observable section you will learn about and
never construct you can use to submit or to admit you've met events and subscribed to it instead of
using the event dimeter.
But for now it's absolutely fine.
So here we are emitting any event again event commital lefse in our service and a new account.
I now want to listen to it.
So here let's say I want to follow an alert.
So I will do this in the constructor for now x has my account service.
And now for the status update at event here I will subscribe to it because event emitter and the just
kind of wraps and observable.
So here I could then received a new status which I know will be a string and then it will simply flow
an alert where I say news stators status something like that.
So now I'm not building any chain of property and event binding.
I do have cross component communication through our servers wifi and emitter and you can see that if
I click a button here they actually got opened on a narrow window but you see this alert was thrown
with the new status unknown.
Same here in active active.
So now we're communicating between components for a service which really can save you a lot of time.
And with that I hope you saw a lot of reasons why services can be very helpful and how you can use them
to your advantage.
Just make sure to use the right amount of instances.
And if you inject services into services make sure to provide the service on the at module level.
And to add at injectable to a service where you want to inject that in.
Let's move on to some assignments now.